README.md, before:

# Client-Side for Reddalerts

## Reddalerts

An application for users to monitor their favorite Subreddits from the website, Reddit, based on specified keywords.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587071/130664603-e4625320-6d93-48c0-9c96-f37f4f5e998b.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587071/130667161-b3c9538a-4227-49a1-b7ce-d828784c3625.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587071/130664934-53a7342d-8870-4173-a5ec-a3c68e7f89dd.png)

## Installation And Set Up

Make sure `node` and `npm` are installed on the current machine.

1. Clone the repository: https://github.com/boxcarcoder/Reddalerts-client.git
2. Install all dependencies: `npm install`
3. Start the server: `npm start`
4. Visit the application: `http://localhost:3000/`

## Visit the Deployed Application

Link: https://reddalerts.com/

This application is deployed with the following configurations:
- Domain registered through Porkbun.
- SSL Certificate generated by Amazon AWS ACM for security and encryption.
- DNS configured through CloudFlare to direct requests:
  - requests to my domains are redirected to Distributions to respond with static assets.
  - requests to API calls are redirected to the server-side, which is handled by the server-side AWS Elastic Beanstalk load-balancer that's configured with the SSL certificate.
- Static assets hosted on AWS S3 buckets.
- Distributions set up with AWS CloudFront.

Commit message:

added thoughts and overview section to the README

README.md, after:

# Client-Side for Reddalerts

## Reddalerts

An application for users to monitor their favorite Subreddits from the website, Reddit, based on specified keywords.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587071/130664603-e4625320-6d93-48c0-9c96-f37f4f5e998b.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587071/130667161-b3c9538a-4227-49a1-b7ce-d828784c3625.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587071/130664934-53a7342d-8870-4173-a5ec-a3c68e7f89dd.png)

## Installation And Set Up

Make sure `node` and `npm` are installed on the current machine.

1. Clone the repository: https://github.com/boxcarcoder/Reddalerts-client.git
2. Install all dependencies: `npm install`
3. Start the server: `npm start`
4. Visit the application: `http://localhost:3000/`

## Visit the Deployed Application

Link: https://reddalerts.com/

This application is deployed with the following configurations:
- Domain registered through Porkbun.
- SSL Certificate generated by Amazon AWS ACM for security and encryption.
- DNS configured through CloudFlare to direct requests:
  - requests to my domains are redirected to distributions to respond with static assets.
  - requests to API calls are redirected to the server-side, which is handled by the server-side AWS Elastic Beanstalk load-balancer that's configured with the SSL certificate.
- Static assets hosted on AWS S3 buckets.
- Distributions set up with AWS CloudFront.

## Thoughts and Overview

I wrote each React component using functional components, as opposed to class components, due to a cleaner code style as well as the reduced need for using the `this` keyword that is prevalent in class components.

With functional components, I make use of destructuring props as well as React Redux states for each component to use for rendering.

I utilize a React Redux store, actions, and reducers to place and change global app state. Using React Redux allowed me to separate the logic between components and state management. Redux action objects, containing a type and payload, are dispatched by action creators to the store, which then sends the action object and the application's current state to the reducers. The corresponding reducer will then produce a new state for the store, based on the action object received and the current state of the application. The action creators are triggered by user interactions with the React components, as well as by React hooks.

Many of the React components utilize the useState() and useEffect() React hooks. The use of hooks allowed me to use local state and side effects without the need to write classes. For example, I would have needed to write a constructor to initialize a component's local state, and used `componentDidMount() or componentDidUpdate()` to change the state. With useState(), I can create the local state with a function call along with a state modifier handler. Any time I need to set or change the state, I can call the state modifier handler. With the use of the useEffect() hook, I was able to run side effects without the use of `componentDidMount() or componentDidUpdate()`. I found that this style of code was more clean and intuitive to read.

I found the use of ES6+ Javascript excellent for numerous reasons. The use of arrow functions made the React component code more readable with the use of functional components and how props and Redux states are destructured. Error handling through the try and catch pattern, as well as the async and await pattern to deal with promises were very useful for dealing with asynchronous operations, such as fetching or updating data in the server-side.
